---
layout: post
title:  "Bit of SASS"
date:   2015-01-22 22:25:05
author: Mahabub Islam
categories: technology Ruby Sass
image: true
---

We are living in a age of wonders. How can you tell? Well in few years back developers had to take a lot of pain to make a good piece of CSS. Now they have some pre-processors , new designs and new way of doing works.

So , a preprocessor. Sass is kind of one. By this time some of you may ask "Why the use of a preprocessor needed? ( In british accent )".

I would say , The style sheets are not that little tiny peice of works anymore. Its even a lot more complex with new features. Here preprocessors comes to save your day.

SASS is a beautiful preprocessor . Right now the stable release is **Selective Steve (3.4.10)**
More on this , Follow along,

### Getting Sass:

Its easy, if you have Ruby installed in your computer, Then you can install it with gem installer.
Like,
	
	$ gem install sass

Check after installation ,
	
	$ sass --version

And it should be there showing the glorius version .

### Diving and learning to swim:

Ahem ! I want to be in safe side , so listen everyone, we have two kinds of working styles in this SASS. 

* SASS Way
* SCSS way

We are going to see the **SCSS** way , why ? because it is easy.


First thing first , **The variable**. It always as a regular variable of programming languages , for more easier concept its just like a Javascript variable for holding Data.Example,
	
	$font-color : #000 ;
	$background-color: #fff ;
	$font-size: 1em ;

So , SCSS use ```$``` in front of a variable name . And that is easy as pie.


Now it does come to the power of Nesting up the styles, With this nesting you can make perfect tree structure of styles.Example:

	.class{
		
		.class-a{
			font-family: $font-family-a ;
		}
		.class-b{
			font-family: $font-family-b ;
		}

		font-size: $font-size-default ;
		color: $font-color-default ;

	}	

Easy and convenient , Right ? Now I give you permission to laugh with joy. 

Another fun with SASS , It supports the Partial system. Just by naming something as in this ```_partial``` format , you can write down small snippet of style sheet. Which as collectively can be used in a single style sheet , by using ```@import```keyword.
Example:

	@import 'partial' ;  # where it is _partial

	.class{
		color: $color ;
		padding: $padding ;
	}



I am quite tired now , talking about all these stuff. But a lot more features still is in store. I think , it would be better If we talk about it in another article.

Yes , it will be so. Take care .







